Newsletters: add 415 (2026-07-24) (#2820)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2026-07-24-newsletter.md

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #415'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2026/07/24/
name: 2026-07-24-newsletter
slug: 2026-07-24-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
FIXME:bitschmidty

## News

- **Draft BIP for full-aggregation of BIP340 signatures**: Fabian Jahr [posted][aggr ml] to
  the Bitcoin-Dev mailing list about a new draft BIP for full-aggregation of
  [BIP340][] signatures, a standard for the DahLIAS aggregate signature scheme
  (see [Newsletter #351][news351 dahlias]), which describes a process to
  combine a collection of signatures into a single aggregate one, with a size
  of only 64 bytes, regardless of the number of signers. However, the described
  protocol is interactive and requires cooperation among all the signers and involves

>   the presence of an untrusted coordinator to reduce communication complexity.

Reviewer: Could add that the role of the coordinator can be taken by any of the signers, but not essential :)

Reviewer 2: Hey Fabian, thank you for you feedback. I am integrating this!

  The process is divided into two rounds:
  1. Each signer starts the signing session by computing a nonce for both

>   secret (`secnonce`) and public keys (`pubnonce`). `pubnonce` is sent to the

Reviewer: I think this can be just slightly simpler

```suggestion
  1. Each signer starts the signing session by computing a secret nonce
  (`secnonce`) and a public nonce (`pubnonce`). `pubnonce` is sent to the
```

  coordinator, which aggregates them (`aggnonce`) and sends the result back to
  signers, together with other pieces of information.
  2. Each signer computes a partial signature using the secret key, `secnonce`,
  the message to sign, and the information provided. Partial signatures are then
  sent to the coordinator, which aggregates them in a single 64-byte signature.

  According to Jahr, one of the possible applications of the proposal would
  be [cross-input signature aggregation (CISA)][topic cisa], a change to Bitcoin

>   consensus that would reduce size and verification costs of multi-input transactions.

Reviewer: nit: this isn't wrong, but the performance gains are a bit secondary to the fee savings which could be made more explicit.

```suggestion
  consensus that would reduce size and thus on-chain fees of multi-input transactions.
```

  `SipHasher13UJ`. Each coin is looked up by a key that combines its txid and
  output number, and every lookup runs that key through a hash function.
  `SipHash-2-4` digests a coin's 32-byte txid in four separate 64-bit pieces,
  so hashing one outpoint runs 14 internal rounds. `SipHasher13UJ` instead
  takes in the whole txid in one 256-bit step and does fewer rounds, cutting
  that to five. The author reports roughly double the hashing throughput in
  isolated benchmarks and about a 5% reduction in one chainstate-reindex run.

- [Bitcoin Core #35766][] enables [BIP324][] [v2 p2p transport][topic v2 p2p
  transport] by default when first connecting to addresses from DNS seeds and
  the compiled-in fixed seeds. Since these seed mechanisms provide addresses
  without service flags, Bitcoin Core previously treated the peers as v1 only
  and a node's earliest automatic connections never attempted encrypted
  transport. The new `SeedsAssumedServiceFlags()` function now assumes
  `NODE_P2P_V2` for those addresses. If this assumption is incorrect for a
  given peer, the node simply reconnects using v1. Connections made through

>   the `-seednode` option and address fetching already attempt v2 by default.

Reviewer 3: Maybe add some information on the timeline here:
Experimental support for BIP 324 shipped in v26, and it was turned on by default in v27.

Reviewer 4: included

  confirmed. CLN stores pending transactions in an `outgoing_tx_map` keyed by
  the original txid, but it replaces the transaction object with each
  higher-fee version without changing the key. The per-block
  `rebroadcast_txs()` loop checked for confirmation using the stale original
  txid, which was never mined, so it kept invoking the rebroadcast and
  replacement logic even though the latest transaction had confirmed. Since
  the txid serves as the hash-table key and cannot be updated in place, the
  loop now computes the current transaction's txid with each iteration and
  uses it for confirmation checks.

- [Core Lightning #9324][] fixes a `Renepay` regression (see [Newsletter
  #263][news263 renepay]) present since v26.04 that built [HTLCs][topic htlc]
  with CLTV expiries roughly one block height too far in the future. Renepay's
  route data already incorporated the current block height into each hop's
  CLTV value, but `route_sendpay_request()` added the block height a second
  time when passing the route to `sendpay`, roughly doubling the expiry.
  Forwarding nodes could then reject the onion with `expiry_too_far`.

> - [libsecp256k1 #1765][] adds an optional `silentpayments` module that

Reviewer 3: We’ve been waiting for this for so long and ardently, this could have been a news item (or could be one in the newsletter next week?).

  as true (high-bandwidth mode). This PR mirrors the hardening equivalent in
  Bitcoin Core (see [Newsletter #412][news412 sendcmpct]).

- [BTCPay Server #7457][] adds the ability to import [wallet labels][topic
  wallet labels] in [BIP329][] JSON Lines format, complementing the existing
  export functionality. Previously labels were effectively lost when moving to
  another server, and label files produced by BIP329-aware wallets such as
  Sparrow or Envoy could not be loaded at all. The importer reads the format's
  `tx`, `addr`, and `output` records and maps them to BTCPay's transaction,
  address, and UTXO objects, skipping any records it can't apply.

- [BIPs #2075][] clarifies [BIP174][]'s description of how [PSBTs][topic psbt]
  are combined. The specification had asserted that combining independently
  updated PSBTs is unconditionally order-independent, but this only holds when
  the participants add distinct fields. When two PSBTs contain the same key
  with different values, a combiner may pick either value or refuse to combine,
  so the specification now notes that the result may depend on the order in

>   which the PSBTs are processed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  the participants add distinct fields. When two PSBTs contain the same key
  with different values, a combiner may pick either value or refuse to combine,
  so the specification now notes that in this case the result is not commutative.
```

Reviewer 4: updated

> - [BIPs #2204][] updates the draft [BIP440][] and [BIP441][] Great Script

Reviewer 3: Nit: BIPs should be after the Bitcoin Core PRs.

Reviewer 4: fixed
